README.md, before:

# NSO Juniper packages for T-SDN

## Introduction
These NSO packages add example Junos support to the T-SDN Core Function Pack.
To use these packages, a working NSO environment with T-SDN installed is
required (for example as used by Cisco Crosswork Network Controller).

Once these packages are installed, Junos support is added to the following
T-SDN services:

- SR-TE
- L3 VPN
- L2 VPN

The Junos configuration generated by these packages should be treated as an
example and may need to be modified to work correctly for some use cases. The
configuration can easily be customised by updating the XML templates.

## Pre-requisites
- NSO with the T-SDN Core Function Pack installed
- Juniper Junos NED

## Installation
Copy the juniper-junos NED, and the packages from this repository, to the NSO
packages directory and reload the packages:

    admin@ncs# packages reload
    ...
    reload-result {
        package flat-l3vpn-juniper
        result true
    }
    reload-result {
        package juniper-junos-nc-4.6
        result true
    }
    reload-result {
        package sr-te-juniper
        result true
    }
    ...

Load merge the `dynamic-device-mapping.xml` file from each package directory:

    admin@ncs# config
    Entering configuration mode terminal
    admin@ncs(config)# load merge packages/sr-te-juniper/dynamic-device-mapping.xml
    Loading.
    358 bytes parsed in 0.01 sec (26.44 KiB/sec)
    admin@ncs(config)# load merge packages/flat-l3vpn-juniper/dynamic-device-mapping.xml
    Loading.
    376 bytes parsed in 0.01 sec (31.85 KiB/sec)
    admin@ncs(config)# commit
    Commit complete.

## How to use

### SR-TE
Choose a Junos device as the head-end when configuring an SR-TE policy in T-SDN.
Both static and ODN policies are supported.

### L3 VPN
Choose a Junos device as the access-pe when adding a VPN endpoint. Either the
`ietf-l3vpn-ntw` or `cisco-flat-L3vpn` model can be used.


## Example
Below is an example of creating a static SR-TE policy with a dynamic path on a
Junos xMX device called vmx99:

    admin@ncs# config
    Entering configuration mode terminal
    admin@ncs(config)# sr-te policies policy sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4 tail-end 198.19.1.4 color 777
    admin@ncs(config-policy-sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4)# head-end vmx99
    admin@ncs(config-head-end-vmx99)# path 101 dynamic metric-type te
    admin@ncs(config-path-101)# dynamic pce
    admin@ncs(config-path-101)# dynamic constraints affinity rule exclude-any color BLUE
    admin@ncs(config-rule-exclude-any)# exit
    admin@ncs(config-path-101)# exit
    admin@ncs(config-policy-sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4)# show configuration
    cisco-sr-te-cfp:sr-te policies policy sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4
     head-end vmx99
     !
     tail-end 198.19.1.4
     color    777
     path 101
      dynamic metric-type te
      dynamic pce
      dynamic constraints affinity rule exclude-any
       color [ BLUE ]
      !
     !
    !
    admin@ncs(config-policy-sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4)# commit dry-run
    cli {
        local-node {
            data  devices {
                      device vmx99 {
                          config {
                              configuration {
                                  protocols {
                                      source-packet-routing {
                 +                        compute-profile sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-101-profile {
                 +                            admin-group {
                 +                                exclude [ BLUE ];
                 +                            }
                 +                            maximum-computed-segment-lists 1;
                 +                            metric-type {
                 +                                te;
                 +                            }
                 +                        }
                 +                        # first
                 +                        source-routing-path sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4 {
                 +                            to 198.19.1.4;
                 +                            color 777;
                 +                            sr-preference 101;
                 +                            lsp-external-controller pccd;
                 +                            primary sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-dynamic {
                 +                                compute {
                 +                                    compute-profile-name sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-101-profile;
                 +                                }
                 +                            }
                 +                        }
                                      }
                                  }
                              }
                          }
                      }
                  }
                  cisco-sr-te-cfp:sr-te {
                      policies {
                 +        policy sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4 {
                 +            head-end vmx99;
                 +            tail-end 198.19.1.4;
                 +            color 777;
                 +            path 101 {
                 +                dynamic {
                 +                    metric-type te;
                 +                    pce {
                 +                    }
                 +                    constraints {
                 +                        affinity {
                 +                            rule exclude-any {
                 +                                color [ BLUE ];
                 +                            }
                 +                        }
                 +                    }
                 +                }
                 +            }
                 +        }
                      }
                  }
        }
    }
    admin@ncs(config-policy-sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4)# commit dry-run outformat native
    native {
        device {
            name vmx99
            data <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"
                      message-id="1">
                   <edit-config xmlns:nc="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
                     <target>
                       <candidate/>
                     </target>
                     <test-option>test-then-set</test-option>
                     <config>
                       <configuration xmlns="http://xml.juniper.net/xnm/1.1/xnm">
                         <protocols>
                           <source-packet-routing>
                             <compute-profile>
                               <name>sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-101-profile</name>
                               <maximum-computed-segment-lists>1</maximum-computed-segment-lists>
                               <metric-type>
                                 <te/>
                               </metric-type>
                               <admin-group>
                                 <exclude>BLUE</exclude>
                               </admin-group>
                             </compute-profile>
                             <source-routing-path>
                               <name>sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4</name>
                               <color>777</color>
                               <to>198.19.1.4</to>
                               <primary>
                                 <name>sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-dynamic</name>
                                 <compute>
                                   <compute-profile-name>sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-101-profile</compute-profile-name>
                                 </compute>
                               </primary>
                               <sr-preference>101</sr-preference>
                               <lsp-external-controller>pccd</lsp-external-controller>
                             </source-routing-path>
                           </source-packet-routing>
                         </protocols>
                       </configuration>
                     </config>
                   </edit-config>
                 </rpc>
        }
    }

Commit message:

Added vendors, services and use-cases from EANTC 2024

README.md, after:

# NSO multi-vendor packages for T-SDN

## Introduction
These NSO packages add multi-vendor support to the T-SDN Core Function Pack.
To use these packages, a working NSO environment with T-SDN installed is
required (for example as used by Cisco Crosswork Network Controller).

These packages provide support for the following vendors and T-SDN services:

Juniper
- SR-TE
- RSVP-TE
- L3 VPN
- L2 VPN

Huawei
- SR-TE
- L3 VPN
- L2 VPN

Ciena
- SR-TE
- L3 VPN

Erisson
- L3 VPN

Arista
- L3 VPN

The configuration generated by these packages should be treated as an
example and may need to be modified to work correctly for some use cases. The
configuration can easily be customised by updating the XML templates.

The configuration was verified as working at EANTC 2024.

## Pre-requisites
- NSO with the T-SDN Core Function Pack installed
- Corresponding NED for each package required

## Installation

Depending on the vendor support and services required, choose the relevant
packages and corresponding NEDs. As an example, to install support for Juniper
L3 VPN and SR-TE follow the steps below.

Copy the juniper-junos NED, and the packages from this repository, to the NSO
packages directory and reload the packages:

    admin@ncs# packages reload
    ...
    reload-result {
        package flat-l3vpn-juniper
        result true
    }
    reload-result {
        package juniper-junos-nc-4.6
        result true
    }
    reload-result {
        package sr-te-juniper
        result true
    }
    ...

Load merge the `dynamic-device-mapping.xml` file from each package directory:

    admin@ncs# config
    Entering configuration mode terminal
    admin@ncs(config)# load merge packages/sr-te-juniper/dynamic-device-mapping.xml
    Loading.
    358 bytes parsed in 0.01 sec (26.44 KiB/sec)
    admin@ncs(config)# load merge packages/flat-l3vpn-juniper/dynamic-device-mapping.xml
    Loading.
    376 bytes parsed in 0.01 sec (31.85 KiB/sec)
    admin@ncs(config)# commit
    Commit complete.

## How to use

### SR-TE
Choose a Junos device as the head-end when configuring an SR-TE policy in T-SDN.
Both static and ODN policies are supported.

### L3 VPN
Choose a Junos device as the access-pe when adding a VPN endpoint. Either the
`ietf-l3vpn-ntw` or `cisco-flat-L3vpn` model can be used.


## Example
Below is an example of creating a static SR-TE policy with a dynamic path on a
Junos xMX device called vmx99:

    admin@ncs# config
    Entering configuration mode terminal
    admin@ncs(config)# sr-te policies policy sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4 tail-end 198.19.1.4 color 777
    admin@ncs(config-policy-sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4)# head-end vmx99
    admin@ncs(config-head-end-vmx99)# path 101 dynamic metric-type te
    admin@ncs(config-path-101)# dynamic pce
    admin@ncs(config-path-101)# dynamic constraints affinity rule exclude-any color BLUE
    admin@ncs(config-rule-exclude-any)# exit
    admin@ncs(config-path-101)# exit
    admin@ncs(config-policy-sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4)# show configuration
    cisco-sr-te-cfp:sr-te policies policy sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4
     head-end vmx99
     !
     tail-end 198.19.1.4
     color    777
     path 101
      dynamic metric-type te
      dynamic pce
      dynamic constraints affinity rule exclude-any
       color [ BLUE ]
      !
     !
    !
    admin@ncs(config-policy-sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4)# commit dry-run
    cli {
        local-node {
            data  devices {
                      device vmx99 {
                          config {
                              configuration {
                                  protocols {
                                      source-packet-routing {
                 +                        compute-profile sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-101-profile {
                 +                            admin-group {
                 +                                exclude [ BLUE ];
                 +                            }
                 +                            maximum-computed-segment-lists 1;
                 +                            metric-type {
                 +                                te;
                 +                            }
                 +                        }
                 +                        # first
                 +                        source-routing-path sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4 {
                 +                            to 198.19.1.4;
                 +                            color 777;
                 +                            sr-preference 101;
                 +                            lsp-external-controller pccd;
                 +                            primary sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-dynamic {
                 +                                compute {
                 +                                    compute-profile-name sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-101-profile;
                 +                                }
                 +                            }
                 +                        }
                                      }
                                  }
                              }
                          }
                      }
                  }
                  cisco-sr-te-cfp:sr-te {
                      policies {
                 +        policy sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4 {
                 +            head-end vmx99;
                 +            tail-end 198.19.1.4;
                 +            color 777;
                 +            path 101 {
                 +                dynamic {
                 +                    metric-type te;
                 +                    pce {
                 +                    }
                 +                    constraints {
                 +                        affinity {
                 +                            rule exclude-any {
                 +                                color [ BLUE ];
                 +                            }
                 +                        }
                 +                    }
                 +                }
                 +            }
                 +        }
                      }
                  }
        }
    }
    admin@ncs(config-policy-sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4)# commit dry-run outformat native
    native {
        device {
            name vmx99
            data <rpc xmlns="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0"
                      message-id="1">
                   <edit-config xmlns:nc="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:netconf:base:1.0">
                     <target>
                       <candidate/>
                     </target>
                     <test-option>test-then-set</test-option>
                     <config>
                       <configuration xmlns="http://xml.juniper.net/xnm/1.1/xnm">
                         <protocols>
                           <source-packet-routing>
                             <compute-profile>
                               <name>sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-101-profile</name>
                               <maximum-computed-segment-lists>1</maximum-computed-segment-lists>
                               <metric-type>
                                 <te/>
                               </metric-type>
                               <admin-group>
                                 <exclude>BLUE</exclude>
                               </admin-group>
                             </compute-profile>
                             <source-routing-path>
                               <name>sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4</name>
                               <color>777</color>
                               <to>198.19.1.4</to>
                               <primary>
                                 <name>sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-dynamic</name>
                                 <compute>
                                   <compute-profile-name>sr_te_c_777_ep_198.19.1.4-101-profile</compute-profile-name>
                                 </compute>
                               </primary>
                               <sr-preference>101</sr-preference>
                               <lsp-external-controller>pccd</lsp-external-controller>
                             </source-routing-path>
                           </source-packet-routing>
                         </protocols>
                       </configuration>
                     </config>
                   </edit-config>
                 </rpc>
        }
    }
